Welcome to this lesson on tracking image key points.
Now before we start, let's briefly dissect the lesson title.
Tracking key points means follow in interesting and unique points we
discover in one image through a sequence of images taken by the same camera.
Now, imagine we are following another vehicle through traffic.
An interesting points on this vehicle could be anything like
tay light corners or some letters and numbers on the license plate,
and tracking those points means to store
their respective pixel locations for all images
in the sequence in which they appear in a long list.
The reason why we want to do this has been given in the previous lesson when we talked
about estimating the time to collision or TTC.
Now in order to do this with a camera,
we need to compute the distance between pairs of points in
one image and between corresponding pairs of points in a subsequent image.
Based on the distance ratios between those pair points,
we can then compute an estimate of the TTC.
Let's get back to the feature tracking again which is actually a three-step process.
First, we have to locate some suitable points in an image.
Let's refer to those points as key points from now on.
Then secondly, we have to find a way to describe those key points
so that we can find them again on the next image taken by the same camera.
This last step is called key point matching.
The goal of this first section is to transform the image in
a way that locating suitable key points is easy.
To do this, we will use a concept called intensity gradient.
At the end of this section, we will have an image where only edges and
corners remain and uniform regions have been stripped away.
Based on such an image, it is much easier to find interesting locations.
So let's take a look at this intensity gradient. Shall we?